##The Cost of Doing Nothing

It seems simple enough.  We don't need all of this new technology we're a small operation.  We don't need automation or the fancy tools. There are a bunch of tools we already have that we're not using. Those words are pretty simple and universal I've even said them myself a time or two.  With the adoption of cloud and converged technologies does this change the game a bit?  Simply, it does. If you had asked farmers around 1900 what they needed to be more productive they might have said another mule.  The adoption of tractors completely changed the paradigm of farming.  Now less than 2% of the US population are involved in agriculture vs. over 50% in 1900.  In fact, at that time they spoke of other industies as "non-farm."Cloud and converged infrastructure are doing to IT what tractors did to farming.  I hear people say these technologies aren't proven or they're not as secure.  In reality they are, in fact, more so.  Many IT environments grew organically over the years as companies simple bought another server here, a router there, to a point where the system grew organically and it was designed at all.  Resources were brought online and a great deal of effort was put into integrating them into the increasingly complex system. These systems usually have a staff member I'll call Ned.  Ned's been with the organization a long time.  He may not have a lot of formal computer training, if any, but he knows the company's legacy systems inside & out.  If something goes down he’s the guy that knows how to fix it.  So much so that almost nothing can be done in the system without him. Ultimately this constrains the organization's ability to grow and innovate.  I've seen companies spend literally millions of dollars because of their Ned to maintain a system that's not meeting their needs but they're not really sure how to transition to something more stable. 

Ned is keenly aware of his limitations and will generally take a passive/aggressive position that sort of holds the organization hostage in a manner of speaking. 

The actual costs of mainitaing these systems and New are usually pretty soft so it's hard to put precise dollar figures on the real costs of maintaining and integrating with these systems.  

